HNC Computing NextGen

Overview

Interested in a flexible, high-earning career in the Computing and Digital Tech sector but not sure of the options or direction you’d like to take? Our HNC Computing will allow you to explore a variety of technologies and understand the underlying concepts.

You will be introduced to a selection of areas that impact aspects of all our daily lives including Basic Computing Concepts, Coding, Software Development, Networking, Cyber Security, Technical Support, Data Science and Artificial Intelligence.
Entry

One of the following:

    Minimum 1 Higher at grade C or above preferably a STEM subject
    A relevant group of NQ Units at SCQF level 6 (must include a proven level of Maths & English)
    Foundation Apprenticeship in IT: Software Development
    Foundation Apprenticeship in IT: Hardware & Systems Support
    Modern Apprenticeships in IT related disciplines
    Previous employment or practical experience and enthusiasm in the subject area may be considered in place of formal entry requirements

Please note: entry is also subject to a satisfactory interview and an academic reference may be requested.
Learn

Aim of Qualification

    Develop candidates’ knowledge and skills in planning, developing and evaluating;
    Develop employment skills, particularly relating to the IT industry;
    Develop study and research skills;
    Develop learning and transferable skills (including Core Skills);
    Provide academic stimulus;
    Support candidates’ continuing professional development.

You will learn and understand the fundamental workings of a PC system, identify and resolve common issues that can occur with regular use. You will be introduced to the legislation and laws governing the use of systems in any environment, study the design and operation of Basic Computing Concepts, Coding and Software Development, Networking and Cyber Security, Data Science and Artificial Intelligence and how it impacts on systems and our daily life.

Learners will complete accredited courses within the HNC and have the opportunity to undertake professional vendor exams as part of this course and are encouraged to do so.

All learners will have the opportunity to train for and enter national IT competitions.  We have a strong record of past participants who are highly skilled and have represented the college both nationally and internationally.
