NQ Computing Science


Overview

This computing course focuses mainly on software development, but also includes networking and databases. It would be ideal for anyone wishing to develop their technical skills or progress onto further study in these areas of computing. The course is pitched at an ideal level for anyone currently in S5/6 at school or anyone who has been out of education for a number of years and is interested in developing coding skills.

This exciting computing course is suitable for school leavers or mature students wishing to develop their technical skills or progress onto further study in computing.

 

 

 
Entry

One of the following:

    Four National 5 passes (preferably including Computing Science or Mathematics)
    NQ qualification at Level 5 in a computing-related area
    Previous employment or practical experience may be considered in place of formal entry requirements if you demonstrate a real interest in the subject

Please note: entry is also subject to a satisfactory interview, and an academic reference may be requested.
Learn

The aim of the course is to enable candidates to:

    apply computational-thinking skills across a range of contemporary contexts
    apply knowledge and understanding of key concepts and processes
    apply skills and knowledge in analysis, design, implementation, testing and evaluation to
    a range of digital solutions
    communicate computing concepts and explain computational behaviour clearly and
    concisely using appropriate terminology
    develop an understanding of the role and impact of computing science in changing and
    influencing our environment and society

Within the course you will complete a Software Development Group Award, consisting of a coding unit, a web authoring unit and an app development unit where you have the opportunity to create any app using a coding environment of your choice.  This could be a game, multimedia app, web app, or anything else that meets the requirements.

You will also learn about networks and servers, and how they support users.  This will include installation, configuration, maintenance and security. There are also units on databases and academic skills for Computing which will prepare you for HNC/HND courses and teach valuable research skills. There will also be the chance to pick up additional Microsoft and Cisco qualifications at no cost to yourself.


